- [Introduction](structure.md?id=introduction)
- [The Root Directory](structure.md?id=the-root-directory)
- [The App Directory](structure.md?id=the-app-directory)

## Introduction

The default Tonka application structure is intended to provide a great starting point for both large and small applications. But you are free to organize your application however you like. Tonka imposes almost no restrictions on where any given class is located - as long as Composer can autoload the class.

## The Root Directory

### The App Directory

The `app` directory contains the core code of your application. We'll explore this directory in more detail soon; however, almost all of the classes in your application will be in this directory.

### The Bootstrap Directory

The bootstrap directory contains the `app.php` file which bootstraps the framework. This directory also contains a `kernel.php` for user authorization and route services control.

### The Config Directory

The config directory, as the name implies, contains all of your application's configuration files. It's a great idea to read through all of these files and familiarize yourself with all of the options available to you.

### The Database Directory

The database directory contains your database migrations, model factories, and seeds. If you wish, you may also use this directory to hold an SQLite database.

### The Public Directory

The public directory contains the index.php file, which is the entry point for all requests entering your application and configures autoloading. This directory also houses your assets such as images, JavaScript, and CSS.

### The Resources Directory

The resources directory contains your views as well as your raw, un-compiled assets such as CSS or JavaScript.

### The Routes Directory

The routes directory contains all of the route definitions for your application. By default, two route files are included with Tonka: `web.php` and `api.php`.

The `web.php` file contains routes that Tonka places in the web middleware group, which provides session state, CSRF protection, and cookie encryption. If your application does not offer a stateless, RESTful API then all your routes will most likely be defined in the `web.php` file.

The `api.php` file contains routes that are intended to be stateless, so requests entering the application through these routes are intended to be authenticated via tokens and will not have access to session state.

### The Storage Directory

The `storage` directory contains your logs and file based sessions. This directory is segregated into app, framework, and errors directories. The app directory may be used to store any files generated by your application. The framework directory is used to store framework generated files such as session files. The errors directory contains your application's log files.

The `storage/app/public` directory may be used to store user-generated files, such as profile avatars, that should be publicly accessible. You should create a symbolic link at `public/storage` which points to this directory. You may create the link using the `php tonka storage:link` console command.

### The Tests Directory

The `tests` directory contains your generated test files.

### The Vendor Directory

The `vendor` directory contains your [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) dependencies.

## The App Directory

The majority of your application is housed in the `app` directory. By default, this directory is namespaced under `App` and is autoloaded by [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) using the [PSR-4 autoloading standard](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/).

By default, the `app` directory contains the `Http`, `Models`, and `Providers` directories. However, over time, a variety of other directories will be generated inside the app directory as you use the make console commands to generate classes. For example, the `app/Http/Validators` directory will not exist until you execute the `make:validator` console command to generate a validator class.

!> Many of the classes in the `app` directory can be generated via console commands. To review the available commands, run the `php tonka list make` command in your terminal.